# Pull Requests

- [Setting up your local environment](#setting-up-your-local-environment)
  - [Step 1: Fork](#step-1-fork)
  - [Step 2: Branch](#step-2-branch)
- [The process of making changes](#the-process-of-making-changes)
  - [Step 3: Code](#step-3-code)
  - [Step 4: Commit](#step-4-commit)
    - [Commit message guidelines](#commit-message-guidelines)
  - [Step 5: Rebase](#step-5-rebase)
  - [Step 6: Test](#step-6-test)
  - [Step 7: Push](#step-7-push)
  - [Step 8: Opening the pull request](#step-8-opening-the-pull-request)
  - [Step 9: Discuss and update](#step-9-discuss-and-update)
    - [Approval and request changes workflow](#approval-and-request-changes-workflow)
  - [Continuous integration testing](#continuous-integration-testing)
- [Notes](#notes)
  - [Getting approvals for your pull request](#getting-approvals-for-your-pull-request)
  - [CI testing](#ci-testing)

## Setting up your local environment

To get started, you will need to have `git` installed locally. Depending on your operating system.

Depending on your environment you might want to grab IDE specific settings from
[IDE configs](https://github.com/nodejs/node-code-ide-configs).

Once you have `git`,
it's time to create a fork.

### Step 1: Fork

Fork the project [on GitHub](https://github.com/FisshBONE-LESTR-LTD-TODO-app/TODO-app) and clone your fork
locally.

```text
$ git clone git@github.com:username/node.git
$ cd node
$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/nodejs/node.git
$ git fetch upstream
```

Configure `git` so that it knows who you are:

```text
$ git config user.name "J. Random User"
$ git config user.email "j.random.user@example.com"
```

You can use any name/email address you prefer here. We only use the
metadata generated by `git` using this configuration for properly attributing
your changes to you in the `AUTHORS` file and the changelog.

If you would like for the GitHub UI to link the commit to your account
and award you the `Contributor` label after the changes have been merged,
make sure this local email is also added to your
[GitHub email list](https://github.com/settings/emails).

### Step 2: Branch

As a best practice to keep your development environment as organized as
possible, create local branches to work within. These should also be created
directly off of the `Dev` branch.

```text
$ git checkout -b my-branch -t upstream/Dev
```

## The process of making changes

### Step 3: Code

If you are modifying code, please be sure to run `npm run lint` from time to time to ensure that the changes follow the Airbnb code style guide.

### Step 4: Commit

It is a best practice to keep your changes as logically grouped
as possible within individual commits. There is no limit to the number of commits any single Pull Request may have, and many contributors find it easier to review changes that are split across multiple commits.

```text
$ git add my/changed/files
$ git commit
```

#### Commit message guidelines

A good commit message should describe what changed and why.

The first line should:

   - contain a short description of the change (preferably 50 characters or
     less, and no more than 72 characters)
   - be entirely in lowercase with the exception of proper nouns, acronyms, and
     the words that refer to code, like function/variable names

   Examples:

   - `server: add localAddress and localPort to Socket`
   - `controller: fix typos in userController.js`

```
If you are new to contributing to the project, please try to do your best at
conforming to these guidelines, but do not worry if you get something wrong.


### Step 5: Rebase

As a best practice, once you have committed your changes, it is a good idea
to use `git rebase` (not `git merge`) to synchronize your work with the main
repository.

```text
$ git fetch upstream
$ git rebase upstream/Dev
```

This ensures that your working branch has the latest changes from `TODO` Dev.

### Step 6: Test

Before submitting your changes in a Pull Request, always run the full Node.js
test suite. To run the tests (including code linting)

```text
npm run test
```


### Step 7: Push

Once you are sure your commits are ready to go, with passing tests and linting,
begin the process of opening a Pull Request by pushing your working branch to
your fork on GitHub.

```text
$ git push origin my-branch
```

### Step 8: Opening the pull request

From within GitHub, opening a new Pull Request will present you with a template. Please try to do your best at filling out the details, but feel free to skip parts if you're not sure what to put.

### Step 9: Discuss and update

You will probably get feedback or requests for changes to your Pull Request.
This is a big part of the submission process so don't be discouraged! Some
contributors may sign off on the Pull Request right away, others may have
more detailed comments or feedback. This is a necessary part of the process
in order to evaluate whether the changes are correct and necessary.

To make changes to an existing Pull Request, make the changes to your local
branch, add a new commit with those changes, and push those to your fork.
GitHub will automatically update the Pull Request.

```text
$ git add my/changed/files
$ git commit
$ git push origin my-branch
```

It is also frequently necessary to synchronize your Pull Request with other
changes that have landed in `Dev` by using `git rebase`:

```text
$ git fetch --all
$ git rebase upstream/Dev
$ git push --force-with-lease origin my-branch
```

**Important:** The `git push --force-with-lease` command is one of the few ways
to delete history in `git`. Before you use it, make sure you understand the
risks.

If you happen to make a mistake in any of your commits, do not worry. You can
amend the last commit (for example if you want to change the commit log).

```text
$ git add any/changed/files
$ git commit --amend
$ git push --force-with-lease origin my-branch
```

There are a number of more advanced mechanisms for managing commits using
`git rebase` that can be used, but are beyond the scope of this guide.


#### Approval and request changes workflow

 Whenever a contributor
reviews a Pull Request they may find specific details that they would like to
see changed or fixed. These may be as simple as fixing a typo, or may involve
substantive changes to the code you have written. While such requests are
intended to be helpful, they may come across as abrupt or unhelpful, especially
requests to change things that do not include concrete suggestions on _how_ to
change them.

Try not to be discouraged. If you feel that a particular review is unfair,
say so, or contact one of the other contributors in the project and seek their
input. Often such comments are the result of the reviewer having only taken a
short amount of time to review and are not ill-intended. Such issues can often
be resolved with a bit of patience. That said, reviewers should be expected to
be helpful in their feedback, and feedback that is simply vague, dismissive and
unhelpful is likely safe to ignore.









### Continuous integration testing

All Pull Requests that contain changes to code must be run through
continuous integration (CI) testing.

Ideally, the code change will pass ("be green").
This means that all tests pass and there are no linting errors. In reality,
however, it is not uncommon for the CI infrastructure itself to fail on
specific platforms or for so-called "flaky" tests to fail ("be red"). It is
vital to visually inspect the results of all failed ("red") tests to determine
whether the failure was caused by the changes in the Pull Request.

## Notes


### Getting approvals for your pull request

A Pull Request is approved either by saying LGTM, which stands for
"Looks Good To Me", or by using GitHub's Approve button.
GitHub's Pull Request review feature can be used during the process.

After you push new changes to your branch, you need to get
approval for these new changes again, even if GitHub shows "Approved"
because the reviewers have hit the buttons before.

### CI testing

Every Pull Request needs to be tested
to make sure that it works on the platforms that Node.js
supports. This is done by running the code through the CI system.
